.TH UTITOOL "1" "August 2025" "utitool 1.2.2"

.SH NAME
utitool \- Retrieve file and system Uniform Type Identifier (UTI) information.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
\fButitool\fR [\fB\-e\fR file extension]
.P
\fButitool\fR [\fB\-u\fR UTI]
.P
\fButitool\fR [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-j\fR]
.P
\fButitool\fR [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-j\fR]
.P
\fButitool\fR [\fB\-m\fR] path...
.P
              [\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\--version\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fButitool\fR can retrieve UTI information for one or more files. Separately, it can be used to retrieve information about a specific UTI (eg. \fInet.daringfireball.markdown\fR) or a specific file extension (eg. \fImd\fR).

A third mode retrieves and lists system-held UTI information or UTI-relevant app information.

.SH USAGE

Options are used in specific modes.

\fBFile Mode\fR
.P
{path}                            The path to the target file or files.
.P
\fB\-m\fR | \fB\-\-more\fR                       Display extra information about each file.

\fBSpecific UTI or File Extension Mode\fR
.P
\fB\-u\fR | \fB\-\-uti\fR {UTI}                  The UTI you are interested in.
.P
\fB\-e\fR | \fB\-\-extension\fR {extension}      The file extension you are interested in.

\fBSystem Information Mode\fR
.P
\fB\-l\fR | \fB\-\-list\fR                       List information on the UTIs recorded by the system.
.P
\fB\-a\fR | \fB\-\-apps\fR                       List information on the apps recorded by the system.
.P
\fB\-j\fR | \fB\-\-json\fR                       Output the above information as JSON.

\fBAll Modes\fR
.P
\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR                       The help screen.
.P
\fB\-\-version\fR                         Show \fButitool\fR version information.
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.P
utitool ~/Downloads/files
.P
utitool \-\-more ~/Downloads/files/file.md
.P
utitool \-\-uti net.daringfireball.markdown
.P
utitool \-\-extension pdf
.P
utitool \-\-list
.P
uitool \-\-list \-\-json
.P
utitool \-lj
.P
uitool \-\-apps \-\-json

.SH COPYRIGHT
Code and design copyright © 2025, Tony Smith (\fB@smittytone\fR). Source code available under the MIT licence.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIhttps://smittytone.net/utitool/index.html\fR
